<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Scene 8</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="scene-8" epub:type="z3998:scene">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Scene <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</span></h2>
			<p>Twilight of the next day. The monkey house at the Zoo. One spot of clear gray light falls on the front of one cage so that the interior can be seen. The other cages are vague, shrouded in shadow from which chatterings pitched in a conversational tone can be heard. On the one cage a sign from which the word “gorilla” stands out. The gigantic animal himself is seen squatting on his haunches on a bench in much the same attitude as Rodin’s <i epub:type="se:name.visual-art.sculpture">Thinker</i>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> enters from the left. Immediately a chorus of angry chattering and screeching breaks out. The gorilla turns his eyes but makes no sound or move.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">With a hard, bitter laugh.</i> Welcome to your city, huh? Hail, hail, de gang’s all here! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">At the sound of his voice the chattering dies away into an attentive silence. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> walks up to the gorilla’s cage and, leaning over the railing, stares in at its occupant, who stares back at him, silent and motionless. There is a pause of dead stillness. Then <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> begins to talk in a friendly confidential tone, half-mockingly, but with a deep undercurrent of sympathy.</i> Say, yuh’re some hard-lookin’ guy, ain’t yuh? I seen lots of tough nuts dat de gang called gorillas, but yuh’re de foist real one I ever seen. Some chest yuh got, and shoulders, and dem arms and mits! I bet yuh got a punch in eider fist dat’d knock ’em all silly! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">This with genuine admiration. The gorilla, as if he understood, stands upright, swelling out his chest and pounding on it with his fist. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> grins sympathetically.</i> Sure, I get yuh. Yuh challenge de whole woild, huh? Yuh got what I was sayin’ even if yuh muffed de woids. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Then bitterness creeping in.</i> And why wouldn’t yuh get me? Ain’t we both members of de same club⁠—de Hairy Apes? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They stare at each other⁠—a pause⁠—then <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> goes on slowly and bitterly.</i> So yuh’re what she seen when she looked at me, de white-faced tart! I was you to her, get me? On’y outa de cage⁠—broke out⁠—free to moider her, see? Sure! Dat’s what she tought. She wasn’t wise dat I was in a cage, too⁠—worser’n yours⁠—sure⁠—a damn sight⁠—’cause you got some chanct to bust loose⁠—but me⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He grows confused.</i> Aw, hell! It’s all wrong, ain’t it? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A pause.</i> I s’pose yuh wanter know what I’m doin’ here, huh? I been warmin’ a bench down to de Battery⁠—ever since last night. Sure. I seen de sun come up. Dat was pretty, too⁠—all red and pink and green. I was lookin’ at de skyscrapers⁠—steel⁠—and all de ships comin’ in, sailin’ out, all over de oith⁠—and dey was steel, too. De sun was warm, dey wasn’t no clouds, and dere was a breeze blowin’. Sure, it was great stuff. I got it aw right⁠—what Paddy said about dat bein’ de right dope⁠—on’y I couldn’t get <em>in</em> it, see? I couldn’t belong in dat. It was over my head. And I kept tinkin’⁠—and den I beat it up here to see what youse was like. And I waited till dey was all gone to git yuh alone. Say, how d’yuh feel sittin’ in dat pen all de time, havin’ to stand for ’em comin’ and starin’ at yuh⁠—de white-faced, skinny tarts and de boobs what marry ’em⁠—makin’ fun of yuh, laughin’ at yuh, gittin’ scared of yuh⁠—damn ’em! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He pounds on the rail with his fist. The gorilla rattles the bars of his cage and snarls. All the other monkeys set up an angry chattering in the darkness. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> goes on excitedly.</i> Sure! Dat’s de way it hits me, too. On’y yuh’re lucky, see? Yuh don’t belong wit ’em and yuh know it. But me, I belong wit ’em⁠—but I don’t, see? Dey don’t belong wit me, dat’s what. Get me? Tinkin’ is hard⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He passes one hand across his forehead with a painful gesture. The gorilla growls impatiently. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> goes on gropingly.</i> It’s dis way, what I’m drivin’ at. Youse can sit and dope dream in de past, green woods, de jungle and de rest of it. Den yuh belong and dey don’t. Den yuh kin laugh at ’em, see? Yuh’re de champ of de woild. But me⁠—I ain’t got no past to tink in, nor nothin’ dat’s comin’, on’y what’s now⁠—and dat don’t belong. Sure, you’re de best off! Yuh can’t tink, can yuh? Yuh can’t talk neider. But I kin make a bluff at talkin’ and tinkin’⁠—a’most git away wit it⁠—a’most!⁠—and dat’s where de joker comes in. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He laughs.</i> I ain’t on oith and I ain’t in heaven, get me? I’m in de middle tryin’ to separate ’em, takin’ all de woist punches from bot’ of ’em. Maybe dat’s what dey call hell, huh? But you, yuh’re at de bottom. You belong! Sure! Yuh’re de on’y one in de woild dat does, yuh lucky stiff! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The gorilla growls proudly.</i> And dat’s why dey gotter put yuh in a cage, see? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The gorilla roars angrily.</i> Sure! Yuh get me. It beats it when you try to tink it or talk it⁠—it’s way down⁠—deep⁠—behind⁠—you ’n’ me we feel it. Sure! Bot’ members of dis club! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He laughs⁠—then in a savage tone.</i> What de hell! T’ hell wit it! A little action, dat’s our meat! Dat belongs! Knock ’em down and keep bustin’ ’em till dey croaks yuh wit a gat⁠—wit steel! Sure! Are yuh game? Dey’ve looked at youse, ain’t dey⁠—in a cage? Wanter git even? Wanter wind up like a sport ’stead of croakin’ slow in dere? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The gorilla roars an emphatic affirmative. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> goes on with a sort of furious exaltation.</i> Sure! Yuh’re reg’lar! Yuh’ll stick to de finish! Me ’n’ you, huh?⁠—bot’ members of this club! We’ll put up one last star bout dat’ll knock ’em offen deir seats! Dey’ll have to make de cages stronger after we’re trou! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The gorilla is straining at his bars, growling, hopping from one foot to the other. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> takes a jimmy from under his coat and forces the lock on the cage door. He throws this open.</i> Pardon from de governor! Step out and shake hands! I’ll take yuh for a walk down Fif’ Avenoo. We’ll knock ’em offen de oith and croak wit de band playin’. Come on, Brother. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The gorilla scrambles gingerly out of his cage. Goes to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> and stands looking at him. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> keeps his mocking tone⁠—holds out his hand.</i> Shake⁠—de secret grip of our order. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Something, the tone of mockery, perhaps, suddenly enrages the animal. With a spring he wraps his huge arms around <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> in a murderous hug. There is a crackling snap of crushed ribs⁠—a gasping cry, still mocking, from <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b>.</i> Hey, I didn’t say, kiss me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The gorilla lets the crushed body slip to the floor; stands over it uncertainly, considering; then picks it up, throws it in the cage, shuts the door, and shuffles off menacingly into the darkness at left. A great uproar of frightened chattering and whimpering comes from the other cages. Then <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Yank</b> moves, groaning, opening his eyes, and there is silence. He mutters painfully.</i> Say⁠—dey oughter match him⁠—wit Zybszko. He got me, aw right. I’m trou. Even him didn’t tink I belonged. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Then, with sudden passionate despair.</i> Christ, where do I get off at? Where do I fit in? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Checking himself as suddenly.</i> Aw, what de hell! No squakin’, see! No quittin’, get me! Croak wit your boots on! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He grabs hold of the bars of the cage and hauls himself painfully to his feet⁠—looks around him bewilderedly⁠—forces a mocking laugh.</i> In de cage, huh? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">In the strident tones of a circus barker.</i> Ladies and gents, step forward and take a slant at de one and only⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">His voice weakening</i>⁠—one and original⁠—Hairy Ape from de wilds of⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He slips in a heap on the floor and dies. The monkeys set up a chattering, whimpering wail. And, perhaps, the Hairy Ape at last belongs.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
